{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17180\viewh12520\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs16 \cf0 > #Problem 2\
> ck<-c(20,60,100,140,180,220,260,300,340,380,420,460,500)\
> had.ha<-c(2,13,30,30,21,19,18,13,19,15,7,8,35)\
> no.ha<-c(88,26,8,5,0,1,1,1,0,0,0,0,0)\
> CK.data<-data.frame(ck, had.ha, no.ha)\
> CK<-CK.data$ck\
> Had.ha<-CK.data$had.ha\
> No.ha<-CK.data$no.ha\
> \
> #Part 1\
> logitmod<-glm(cbind(Had.ha,No.ha) ~ CK, family = binomial(link = logit), data = CK.data)\
> summary(logitmod)\
\
Call:\
glm(formula = cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK, family = binomial(link = logit), \
    data = CK.data)\
\
Deviance Residuals: \
     Min        1Q    Median        3Q       Max  \
-2.79579  -1.34637   0.00587   0.07173   2.26860  \
\
Coefficients:\
             Estimate Std. Error z value Pr(>|z|)    \
(Intercept) -3.028360   0.366977  -8.252   <2e-16 ***\
CK           0.035104   0.004081   8.602   <2e-16 ***\
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
\
(Dispersion parameter for binomial family taken to be 1)\
\
    Null deviance: 311.29  on 12  degrees of freedom\
Residual deviance:  28.14  on 11  degrees of freedom\
AIC: 51.596\
\
Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 6\
\
> #Our estimated parameters from the logit model are:\
> #beta0.hat = -3.028360,  beta1.hat = 0.035104\
> par(mfrow=c(2,2))   \
> plot(logitmod) #Producing diagnostic plots (model checking plots)\
> #The Residual Plot of the deviance suggests that the current model is a poor fit for the data.\
> #Because the number of trials at each level of predictor is sufficiently large, we can use\
> #the model deviance as an approximation to the chi-squared distribution and thus use it for\
> #diagnostics, model selection, etc.\
> deviance(logitmod)\
[1] 28.14022\
> df.residual(logitmod)\
[1] 11\
> 1-pchisq(deviance(logitmod), df.residual(logitmod))\
[1] 0.003080996\
> anova(logitmod, test = "Chi")\
Analysis of Deviance Table\
\
Model: binomial, link: logit\
\
Response: cbind(Had.ha, No.ha)\
\
Terms added sequentially (first to last)\
\
\
     Df Deviance Resid. Df Resid. Dev  Pr(>Chi)    \
NULL                    12     311.29              \
CK    1   283.15        11      28.14 < 2.2e-16 ***\
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
> #Thus, the model is not a good fit.\
> #Part 2\
> par(mfrow=c(1,1))\
> p.obs<-Had.ha/(Had.ha + No.ha) #observed probabilities of heart attack\
> plot(CK, p.obs)\
> p.fit<-fitted(logitmod) #Predicted/Fitted probabilities of having a heart attack\
> par(mfrow(c(1,1)))\
Error in par(mfrow(c(1, 1))) : could not find function "mfrow"\
> plot(CK, p.obs, xlab = "CK Level", ylab = "Probability of Heart Attack", main = "logit link model 1")\
> lines(CK, p.fit)\
> #From the plot, it is apparent that the higher the concentration of creatinine kinase in a \
> #given patient's blood stream, the higher the probability that the patient suffered a heart attack.\
> #Therefore, the coefficient for CK must be positive when plotted against the probability - which\
> #is what we see in the logit model results as well with beta1.hat > 0.\
> #The odds, with beta1.hat = 0.035104, can be interpreted as follows:\
> #For each unit increase in CK level, the odds of having a heart attack increases by a factor\
> #exp(0.035104). In other words, the odds of having a heart attack at some given CK[i] + 1 level\
> #is e(0.035104) times the odds of having a heart attack at level CK[i].\
> #odds(Had.ha | CK = CK[i] + 1) = exp(0.035104)*odds(Had.ha | CK = CK[i])\
> \
> #Part 3\
> logitmod.2<-glm(cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK + I(CK^2) + I(CK^3), family = binomial(link = logit),\
+                 data = CK.data)\
> summary(logitmod.2)\
\
Call:\
glm(formula = cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK + I(CK^2) + I(CK^3), \
    family = binomial(link = logit), data = CK.data)\
\
Deviance Residuals: \
     Min        1Q    Median        3Q       Max  \
-0.91095  -0.01629   0.01678   0.23005   1.66260  \
\
Coefficients:\
              Estimate Std. Error z value Pr(>|z|)    \
(Intercept) -5.890e+00  9.977e-01  -5.903 3.57e-09 ***\
CK           1.146e-01  2.453e-02   4.671 2.99e-06 ***\
I(CK^2)     -5.113e-04  1.721e-04  -2.971  0.00297 ** \
I(CK^3)      7.744e-07  3.468e-07   2.233  0.02554 *  \
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
\
(Dispersion parameter for binomial family taken to be 1)\
\
    Null deviance: 311.2869  on 12  degrees of freedom\
Residual deviance:   4.6775  on  9  degrees of freedom\
AIC: 32.134\
\
Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 8\
\
> #The first thing to notice is that the AIC value for this model is significantly smaller\
> #than the AIC value for the model in part 1. Thus, this model is already showing signs of being\
> #a better fit to the data.\
> par(mfrow=c(2,2))\
> plot(logitmod.2)\
> #The Residual Plot shows signs of a better fit to the data. There aren't any obvious signs\
> #of a systematic pattern about the y=0 line in the Residual plot.\
> p.fit2<-fitted(logitmod.2)\
> par(mfrow=c(1,1))\
> plot(CK, p.obs, xlab = "CK Level", ylab = "Probability of Heart Attack", main = "logit link model 2")\
> lines(CK, p.fit2)\
> #The curve is clearly a much better fit to the data. Most of the points fall directly onto the\
> #curve.\
> anova(logitmod, logitmod.2, test = "Chisq") #F-test comparing the two models.\
Analysis of Deviance Table\
\
Model 1: cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK\
Model 2: cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK + I(CK^2) + I(CK^3)\
  Resid. Df Resid. Dev Df Deviance  Pr(>Chi)    \
1        11    28.1402                          \
2         9     4.6775  2   23.463 8.038e-06 ***\
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
> #p-value = 8.038e-06 which is less then any significance level alpha. Thus, our \
> #model with powers of CK fits the data better.\
> #Part 4\
> probitmod<-glm(cbind(Had.ha,No.ha) ~ CK, family = binomial(link = probit), data = CK.data)\
> summary(probitmod)\
\
Call:\
glm(formula = cbind(Had.ha, No.ha) ~ CK, family = binomial(link = probit), \
    data = CK.data)\
\
Deviance Residuals: \
    Min       1Q   Median       3Q      Max  \
-3.1655  -1.0577   0.0004   0.5648   3.0339  \
\
Coefficients:\
             Estimate Std. Error z value Pr(>|z|)    \
(Intercept) -1.576729   0.175738  -8.972   <2e-16 ***\
CK           0.017138   0.001814   9.449   <2e-16 ***\
---\
Signif. codes:  0 \'91***\'92 0.001 \'91**\'92 0.01 \'91*\'92 0.05 \'91.\'92 0.1 \'91 \'92 1\
\
(Dispersion parameter for binomial family taken to be 1)\
\
    Null deviance: 311.287  on 12  degrees of freedom\
Residual deviance:  39.039  on 11  degrees of freedom\
AIC: 62.495\
\
Number of Fisher Scoring iterations: 8\
\
> #We see that the coefficients are quite different for the probit model although they do have \
> #the same sign. In general, the interpretation of the coefficient for CK relates to the\
> #probability of having a heart attack in a similar way.\
> p.fit3<-fitted(probitmod)\
> plot(CK, p.obs, xlab = "CK Level", ylab = "Probability of Having a Heart Attack", main = "probit link model")\
> lines(CK, p.fit3)\
> p.prob<-predict(probitmod, type = "response")\
> l.prob<-predict(logitmod, type = "response")\
> p.prob[10]  #CK = 380 is in the 10th row of the matrix.\
       10 \
0.9999996 \
> l.prob[10]\
       10 \
0.9999667 \
> #According to the probit model, the estimated probability of having a heart attack with a CK level\
> #of 380 (or a concentration of 380 - I'm not sure what units are being using) is 0.9999996\
> #while the logit model estimates it to be 0.9999667, which is very similar. The models agree\
> #strongly in this area of the data. However, this is may not be true for all levels of CK.\
> \
> p.prob[12] #CK = 460 in 12th row of matrix\
12 \
 1 \
> l.prob[12]\
      12 \
0.999998 \
> #There is an even strong relationship at CK = 460\
> \
> #Another way to compute these values:\
> #For CK = 380\
> ilogit(coef(logitmod)[1] + coef(logitmod)[2]*380)  #Inverse Logit Function\
(Intercept) \
  0.9999667 \
> pnorm(coef(probitmod)[1] + coef(probitmod)[2]*380) \
(Intercept) \
  0.9999996 \
> #For CK = 460\
> ilogit(coef(logitmod)[1] + coef(logitmod)[2]*460)\
(Intercept) \
   0.999998 \
> pnorm(coef(probitmod)[1] + coef(probitmod)[2]*460)\
(Intercept) \
          1 \
> \
> #same results as above.}